Brady Lund: Hello, everyone. This week. We are talking about research and information, science
Brady Lund: and research and information. Science is really diverse. There's a wide variety of areas
Brady Lund: that you can conduct research in, as you can imagine, pretty much every area we've talked about across the modules of this course is an area where you could be conducting research. So rather than putting together a few slides for a Powerpoint that would try to cover everything we could be doing in information science research. I thought I'd bring up one of these articles that I published a few years ago.
Brady Lund: and this was a bibliometric study where we took data for well, from publications
Brady Lund: published in major information, science journals in 2,006, 2012 and 2018, we identified the
Brady Lund: subject areas of these articles using some different machine learning approaches.
Brady Lund: And we identified subtopics. So new emerging areas where research is being conducted. So this table here, table 3, you're looking at in this paper is looking at the top topics from 2,006, 2012, and 2018,
Brady Lund: showing the evolution of the main topics that people are exploring.
Brady Lund: And we picked these years because there was a previous study done by some different researchers, and we went to compare our findings to that study. So that is why we picked these years. But, as you can see across these years here.
Brady Lund: we're noting a few trends in information science research, we can see that the biggest area of research within our discipline is information storage and retrieval. So we're talking about
Brady Lund: building systems, proposing new systems, evaluating systems, how systems are used in different contexts. That is by far the most common research area within our discipline. So if you're thinking about, what should I do in information? Science research. Well, if what is most popular is a factor in your decision.
Brady Lund: information, storage and retrieval is our most common research area, although it has
Brady Lund: declined a fair amount in recent years.
Brady Lund: library and information service activities. So you know, within library and information science, we're going to have research obviously related to library services. You can think about things like how to improve libraries, how to have good activities in libraries, evaluating certain library services, those kinds of things
Brady Lund: that would be the second most common in general across the study.
Brady Lund: scientific and professional communication. So think about how we
Brady Lund: prepare scholarly articles, things like bibliometrics which you're going to be doing in our assignment this week?
Brady Lund: Understanding the nature of publishing. Why is scholarly publishing important? Why do we do it? Those kinds of things.
Brady Lund: Then we have information seeking. So you can recall back when we talked about information behavior, the different ways we could study that right interviews, surveys, content analysis.
Brady Lund: looking at how people are sharing information, how people are seeking information, what are their information needs?
Brady Lund: That's a popular area of research.
Brady Lund: Other general topics, topics relating to history of books.
Brady Lund: history of publishing. So that's 1 area of research as well. At the bottom. You see, library history so articles, publications about history, of specific libraries or histories of our discipline.
Brady Lund: We have education in library and information science so studying like the best way to teach when I'm teaching right now, for instance, how it's the best way to do that.
Brady Lund: What is profession so studying like? What is the nature of information, science, what is all contained within our profession. So again, essentially.
Brady Lund: what are the boundaries of our profession? What should I be teaching in a class like this if I'm trying to teach you what the information science professions are about, and then just some general analysis of like, what is information? Science? Again.
Brady Lund: I think slightly more interesting. Probably to you is where we broke this down to subtopics, so that might give some further understanding of what areas are particularly growing in popularity. Now, I'd be really interested in doing this study again
Brady Lund: at this point with the popularity of generative AI, because I imagine that has probably shifted the skills quite a bit. You can see, for instance, social media analysis, how quickly that went from being
Brady Lund: nothing like not we didn't talk about it at all in our field because it didn't exist to being a very major
Brady Lund: component of many of the studies that we had in the information science. So we really focused on social media as a platform for seeking information, sharing information just in general as a tool to be used, the informatics perspective. And so social media became really popular. I would wager. I would predict that
Brady Lund: AI generative AI would have that same kind of growth very rapidly. If you look at that in a few years. Time
Brady Lund: data, analytics, data. Science has become a big component of our field
Brady Lund: information literacy. So how people find and use reliable information that's become popular information knowledge, management, scientometrics, bibliometrics.
Brady Lund: all contained within this infometrics factor. And then we see a few that are kind of dropping so
Brady Lund: academic library issues, information, mood studies, specific studies related to information, organization, metadata.
Brady Lund: information, retrieval. So specifically only looking at the information, retrieval, process, system, analysis and design. Those have all dropped somewhat in popularity, as I believe, focus has shifted towards social media analysis. And, as I said, I think you'd see the same thing with artificial intelligence. So we, as a discipline are very interested in what's cutting edge, what's new
Brady Lund: in the area of technology and how people interact with technology. So you see high variance in this where one topic may lose some popularity where a new topic emerges and gains popularity quickly. And you can really see that when we break it down at these kind of subtopic areas here.
Brady Lund: So this is just to give you an idea of some areas where
Brady Lund: research is focused in information science. And like, I said, this changes quickly, so
Brady Lund: go out and explore some articles, explore some papers, see what's popular right now. This is to give you an idea that it does change quickly. And I would be really interested again to see what areas we're at now. So
Brady Lund: I think just going out and finding some things, seeing what's being published recently. So this week I'm asking you to look at some publication records of some of our faculty just to see what are they publishing right now. And does that tell us something about what areas are really popular at the moment? So you'll be doing that.
Brady Lund: And then, you know, just looking at what's out there
Brady Lund: and then for our assignment this week, we're going to actually be looking at one specific area of this. So infometrics, bibliometrics are going to be working through an assignment on that, and that should be really hopefully informative as well. About one particular approach, one particular area that we focus a fair bit of our research within information science. So go ahead and begin to read through work through that.
Brady Lund: of course, feel free to email me if you have any questions, and I will talk to you again soon with our next module. Thank you.